SA 36. Mr. ENSIGN submitted an amendment intended to be proposed by him  to the bill S. 181, to amend title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, and to modify the operation of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, to clarify that a discriminatory compensation decision or other practice that is unlawful under such Acts occurs each time compensation is paid pursuant to the discriminatory  <pre>[Page:
S729]</pre>
compensation decision or other practice, and for other purposes; which was ordered to lie on the table; as follows:


 Beginning on page 3, strike line 21 and all that follows through page 5, line 9 and insert the following:


in compensation in violation of this title, when an intentional discriminatory compensation decision or other practice is adopted, when an individual becomes subject to an intentional discriminatory compensation decision or other practice, or when an individual is affected by application of an intentional discriminatory compensation decision or other practice, including each time wages, benefits, or other compensation is paid, resulting in whole or in part from such a decision or other practice.

 ``(B) In addition to any relief authorized by section 1977A of the Revised Statutes (42 U.S.C. 1981a), liability may accrue and an aggrieved person may obtain relief as provided in subsection (g)(1), including recovery of back pay for up to two years preceding the filing of the charge, where the unlawful employment practices that have occurred during the charge filing period are similar or related to unlawful employment practices with regard to discrimination in compensation that occurred outside
the time for filing a charge.''.
SEC. 4. DISCRIMINATION IN COMPENSATION BECAUSE OF AGE. 
 Section 7(d) of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (29 U.S.C. 626(d)) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence--
 (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively; and
 (B) by striking ``(d)'' and inserting ``(d)(1)'';
 (2) in the third sentence, by striking ``Upon'' and inserting the following:
 ``(2) Upon''; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 ``(3) For purposes of this section, an unlawful practice occurs, with respect to discrimination in compensation in violation of this Act, when an intentional discriminatory compensation decision or other practice is adopted, when a person becomes subject to an intentional discriminatory compensation decision or other practice, or when a person is affected by application of an intentional discriminatory compensation decision or other  
(As printed in the Congressional Record for the Senate on Jan 21, 2009.)
