SA 95. Mr. BAUCUS (for himself and Mr. GRASSLEY) proposed an amendment to the bill H.R. 2, to amend title XXI of the Social Security Act to extend and improve the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other purposes; as follows:

 Beginning on page 216, strike line 8 and all that follows through page 219, line 21, and insert the following:
 ``(5) OPTION FOR STATES WITH A SEPARATE CHIP PROGRAM TO PROVIDE DENTAL-ONLY SUPPLEMENTAL COVERAGE.--
 ``(A) IN GENERAL.--Subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C), in the case of any child who is enrolled in a group health plan or health insurance coverage offered through an employer who would, but for the application of paragraph (1)(C), satisfy the requirements for being a targeted low-income child under a State child health plan that is implemented under this title, a State may waive the application of such paragraph to the child in order to provide--
 ``(i) dental coverage consistent with the requirements of subsection (c)(5) of section 2103; or
 ``(ii) cost-sharing protection for dental coverage consistent with such requirements and the requirements of subsection (e)(3)(B) of such section.
 ``(B) LIMITATION.--A State may limit the application of a waiver of paragraph (1)(C) to children whose family income does not exceed a level specified by the State, so long as the level so specified does not exceed the maximum income level otherwise established for other children under the State child health plan.
 ``(C) CONDITIONS.--A State may not offer dental-only supplemental coverage under this paragraph unless the State satisfies the following conditions:
 ``(i) INCOME ELIGIBILITY.--The State child health plan under this title--
 ``(I) has the highest income eligibility standard permitted under this title (or a waiver) as of January 1, 2009;
 ``(II) does not limit the acceptance of applications for children or impose any numerical limitation, waiting list, or similar limitation on the eligibility of such children for child health assistance under such State plan; and
 ``(III) provides benefits to all children in the State who apply for and meet eligibility standards.
 ``(ii) NO MORE FAVORABLE TREATMENT.--The State child health plan may not provide more favorable dental coverage or cost-sharing protection for dental coverage to children provided dental-only supplemental coverage under this paragraph than the dental coverage and cost-sharing protection for dental coverage provided to targeted low-income children who are eligible for the full range of child health assistance provided under the State child health plan.''.
 (2) STATE OPTION TO WAIVE WAITING PERIOD.--Section 2102(b)(1)(B) (42 U.S.C. 1397bb(b)(1)(B)), as amended by section 111(b)(2), is amended--
 (A) in clause (ii), by striking ``and'' at the end;
 (B) in clause (iii), by striking the period and inserting ``; and''; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following new clause:
 ``(iv) at State option, may not apply a waiting period in the case of a child provided dental-only supplemental coverage under section 2110(b)(5).''.


(As printed in the Congressional Record for the Senate on Jan 29, 2009.)
